The Millennium Bridge is a bridge that started construction in 1996 and was completed in 2000.
The bridge is notorious for the original design moving whenever someone tried to walk across it.
Eventually it was closest and reopened two years later after the bridge was improved using extensively more passive dampening the swaying stopped and people no longer complained of feeling sick from the swaying motion.

The Space Shuttle Challenger was a space shuttle that had its maiden voyage in 1983.
 In 1986, three years after the craft was first launched it exploded and disintegrated after being broken up by aerodynamic forces.
 This after an O-ring in the right solid rocket booster failed and caused a breach that created a plume of flame that cut through the external fuel tank and caused a huge ball of flame that engulfed the entire fuel tank.
 All fuel was burned up and caused structural damage that, when the craft came into contact with strong aerodynamic forces 73 seconds into flight.
 All seven members of the crew, five NASA astronauts and two payload specialists, were killed. It is debated whether the crew died during the fire or when then hit the ocean.
 The project was overpriced and testing was rushed after the success of the same, but earlier, model shuttle - the Columbia which disintegrated during re-entry in 2003 similarly killing its seven crew.
 The failure to test their products safety and structural strength led to the incident.
 The could possibly have been avoided if the craft was checked over before launch and further testing of the craft's components and more careful developments of the project as a whole.

 The Chernobyl Nuclear Incident was a catastrophic nuclear disaster that occurred in 1986. The reactor was undergoing a stress-test when the team left after their shifts without telling the next team.
 The stress-test had required the disabling of the automatic cooling management system and allowing the temperature to climb.
 It was unknown to the next shift team that the cooling system had been disabled and the heat levels rose to a point where the reactor core exploded.
 It was when the reactor emergency shutdown procedures were activated once the second shift team realised that the reactor was melting down.
 However since the cooling filters were also disabled and the shutdown procedure caused the explosion that leaked radiation to the surrounding area.
 Lack of effective communication between the workers caused the experiment and stress-test to go unobserved and caused the disaster.

The Titanic was a large cruise liner that in 1912 sunk when it collided with an iceberg and sunk. The project was at the time the largest of its kind. It was known that there were not enough lifeboats for everyone onboard.
Because of the Titanic's claim that it was unsinkable there was no thought through evacuation plan apart from getting people to the few lifeboats. The idea of "women and children first" led to much time wasted in sifting through the crowds.
This meant that many more died because they could not reach the lifeboats in time. The collision with the iceberg was most likely down to the spotters not having any binoculars and the bridge officers would not share theirs.
This act of bitterness led to the spotters being totally ineffective until it was too late and the ship collided with the iceberg.



What was the brief?
How was the project organised?
Were there any failures in the planning?
How could they have been fixed?
If it was fixed, how was it done?
